Internal Audit (#1)
jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware: docs/DOCUMENTATION.md

      - [DELETE /jobs/:id](#deljobs)
    - [middleware()](#middlewarefunc)
  - [monitor.js](#monitorjs)
    - [Environment Variables](#envvarsmonitor)
    - [Metrics](#metrics)
    - [readOracleAddresses()](#readOracleAddresses)
    - [readMonitoringState()](#readMonitoringState)
    - [getOraclesInvitations()](#getOraclesInvitations)
    - [updateMetrics(oracleName, oracle, feed, value, id, actualPrice, lastRound)](#updateMetrics)
    - [updateBalanceMetrics(oracleName, oracle, feed, value)](#updateBalanceMetrics)
    - [queryPrice(feed)](#queryPriceMonitor)
    - [getOffersAndBalances(follower, oracle)](#getOffersAndBalances)
    - [getLatestPrices(oracle, oracleDetails, state)](#getLatestPrices)
    - [startServer()](#startServer)
    - [monitor()](#monitorfunc)
- [Considerations](#considerations)
  - [Why not use a Chainlink cron job?](#consid1)
  - [Why does the middleware consist of an exposed API and two intervalled functions?](#consid2)
  - [Why does the middleware only consider the last few offers when making checks?](#consid3)
  - [Intervals](#consid4)
## Oracle Network Structure

<img src="images/struct.png"></img>
<br>

Each node operator has to run:

> - A Chainlink node hosted locally in Docker that queries Chainlink adapters

Reviewer: Get a link to what a chainlink adapter is or describe it in a few words

Reviewer: https://docs.chain.link/chainlink-nodes/external-adapters/external-adapters/

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

- Chainlink adapters hosted beside the Chainlink node that act as middleware between the node as various 3rd party APIs
- Middleware which initiates jobs on the Chainlink node through its API if a round hasn't been created in 1 minute on the on chain aggregator contract. Rounds are also created if the oracle operator's current price is deviated past X% from the latest on-chain median price. Oracle operators are not allowed to create 2 rounds subsequently to prevent spamming.

> - An Agoric node hosted on their own infrastructure to allow the middleware / oracle proxy to communicate and broadcast transactions reliably to the network.

Reviewer: You cannot use a public node to submit a tx?

Reviewer 2: It can be done but it is preferred if oracles use their own nodes. Also, oracles are validators so they will have their own nodes.

Author: It is less reliable to use public nodes generally.

## Smart Contract Details

> Smart Contract - https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/src/price/priceAggregatorChainlink.js

Author: Link does not work

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

> Smart Contract - https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/src/price/priceAggregatorChainlink.js

Reviewer: not found, use a commit hash when posting a github link

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

> - The smart contract resembles a native Chainlink Solidity Flux-Monitor smart contract on Ethereum.

Reviewer: Add a link to what a native chainlink solidity flux monitor is

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/66a78fb742ad2bef38d1b3a84d13bfa1c0811e15

- For each feed, there will be a smart contract on chain and each node operator receives invitations to their smart wallet to be part of the oracle set. Then, oracles can use that invitation to push prices on chain.
- There is a minimum number of submissions which has to be reached in order for the on-chain price to be updated

> - An oracle cannot initialise multiple consecutive rounds to avoid network congestion

Author: Haven't looked at the middleware code yet, but a reminder to make sure that this handled in our middleware code.

- The updated price is the median from the submitted prices for a particular round

> - Submissions for old rounds cannot be submitted and will be rejected

Author: Haven't looked at the middleware code yet, but a reminder to make sure that this handled in our middleware code.

## Aims/Objectives

#### Middleware

The middleware is needed to:
1. Create CL jobs. Chainlink Jobs are created every minute. A cron job is not used in order to be able to pass in particular inputs to the job run so that the progress of the request can be stored and monitored.
2. Get results back from the CL node.
3. Query smart contract for new rounds.
3. Push price updates on chain.

The middleware should contain the following functionalities:

> 1. A state file which is updated so that whenever the middleware is restarted it is able to continue from where it was stopped.

Author: Did we measure how big this file might get while testing the system? I suggest we perform some benchmarking to see the storage requirements. Reason being is we might need to consider using a database instead as this is much better in performance (for example MongoDB).

Reviewer: What is a state file here? is it a .txt file?

Reviewer 2: Moved to SQLite, can we resolve @dillu24?

Author: Yep will resolve. Will look at the implementation and leave comments there if need be

2. An endpoint to listen for new and removed jobs from the CL node. This is needed in order to keep a list of jobs for which the middleware has to send requests.
3. Keep a list of these jobs in its state
4. Query the price on chain and the latest round every X seconds so that a new job request is created if a new round is found
5. Send CL job requests to the CL node with parameters including a request ID and the reason for the request every Y seconds. The reason can be one of the following 3 reasons:
  a. Type 1: Time expired and a new request have to be made
  b. Type 2: A price deviation from the on-chain price was found
  c. Type 3: A new round was found
6. An endpoint to listen for results from a CL job for submitted job requests. This endpoint should decide whether or not to push the price on chain. A price should be pushed on chain if one of the following cases is satisfied:
  a. It is a new round and the oracle has not yet submitted to this round

>   b. An interval of Z minutes/hours expired since the last price pushed on chain. This is only done if the oracle has not started the previous round himself. This is done because an oracle is not allowed to start consecutive rounds.

Author: ```suggestion
  b. An interval of Z minutes/hours expired since the last price pushed on chain. **NOTE**: This is only done if the oracle has not started the previous round, as oracles are not allowed to start consecutive rounds.
```

Author: By the way, in the docs I have noticed that these `a., b., c.` are not indented as you expected. Make sure to fix this throughout the docs.

Example: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23262259/219069041-209642a1-4c3c-4a49-a658-0bbcca8853be.png)

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

>   c. There is a deviation of more than W% from the current price on-chain. Once again, only done if the oracle has not started the previous round himself.

Author: ```suggestion
  c. There is a deviation of more than W% from the current price on-chain. Once again, only done if the oracle has not started the previous round.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

7. Keep the following information in the state file for each feed:
  a. The CL job's external id for that feed
  b. The name of the feed
  c. The last request id
  d. The last reported round on chain
  e. The timestamp of the last request made to the CL node
  f. The last aggregated price on chain
  g. The request id of the last result received from the CL node
  h. The details of the latest on-chain round including the round id, the timestamp when it was started, by whom it was started and whether the oracle made a submission for that round

#### Monitoring

The monitoring script is needed to:
1. Monitor the actual price and that it is being updated

> 2. Monitor node operators submissions to ensure they are submitting values within accepatable thresholds and that they are submitting to rounds and not missing them

Author: ```suggestion
2. Monitor node operators' submissions to ensure they are submitting values within accepatable thresholds and that they are submitting to rounds and not missing them
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

2. get-sdk-package-names.sh - This script was copied from the agoric-sdk repository and it is used to get the sdk package names.
3. npm-audit-fix.sh - This script was copied from the agoric-sdk repository and it is used to fix issues with npm.
4. provision-wallet.sh - This script can be used to provision a smart wallet. This script takes in one parameter, the wallet name. An example of a command to run this is ```./provision-wallet.sh $WALLET_NAME```

#### src

This directory includes all the source code. It is split into two other directories, <b>oracle</b> and <b>lib</b>.

Furthermore, it contains the following two files which serve as an entry point to the middleware and monitoring script

* <b>bin-middleware.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the middleware by calling the middleware() function
* <b>bin-monitor.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the monitoring script by calling the getOraclesInvitations() and monitor() functions to first get the oracle invitation IDs and then starting the monitoring. 

##### oracle

This directory contains the following files

> 1. <b>feeds.json</b> - This file contains the configuration for each feed in the oracle network. Each feed will have the following fields:

Author: Out of curiosity, what happens if you have operators running different thresholds?

Reviewer 2: They will submit less/more frequently. We will catch this from the oracle network monitoring and contact the respective misbehaving oracles.

Author: nice, ok.

##### lib

This directory contains files which I cloned from the <b>agoric-sdk</b> repository and these contain functions which are used in the middleware and monitoring script.

##### docker-compose.yml

This is a docker-compose file to spin up the middleware and monitoring script

##### Dockerfile.middleware

This is a docker file to build the middleware

##### Dockerfile.monitor

This is a docker file to build the monitoring script

##### monitoring-grafana-dashboard.json

This is a Grafana template to monitor an oracle node or the whole oracle network

## Technical Documentation

In this section, I will go over the <b>oracle</b> directory and explain in detail each function in the files inside it.

<div id='helperjs'></div>

### <u>helper.js</u>

This file contains helper functions which are used both by the middleware and the monitoring script.

The file contains the following functions:

<br>
<div id='readJSONFile'></div>

<b>readJSONFile(filename)</b>

Inputs:
* filename - This is the file name or path to the file from which to read

Use: This function is used to read a JSON object from a file

Returns: The JSON contents in the file

> What it does:

Author: A reminder for myself to suggest a better way of reading and parsing, mainly this should include creating a class named config (if you are parsing a config) which has three functions `toJson`, `toString` and `parse`.

I will give you an example while reviewing the code, but in case I forget ask me.

Author: I suggest you have something like this:

```
class FeedsConfig {
    let config;

    constructor(filename) {
        parse(filename)
    }
    
    setConfig(newConfig): Saves newConfig (json) in the config variable
    parse(filename): same logic as readJSONFile but returns nothing and saves the JSON in the config variable using setConfig
    toString(): Converts contents in the config variable to string and returns the stringified version (no saving)
    save(filename): Saves the config variable contents to file after converting to string using toString

}
```

Author: Like this in your logic you don't need to throw JSONs from one function to another, but you can use a `FeedsConfig` instance.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/3a916f227eb2dc0dab34b47e4e83975824713914

  1. Reads the file
  2. Parses the contents to a JSON variable
  3. Returns the variable containing the JSON object or array

<br>
<div id='saveJSONDataToFile'></div>

<b>saveJSONDataToFile(newData, filename)</b>

Inputs:
* newData - This is the JSON data to save
* filename - This is the file name or path to the file where to save data

Use: This function is used to save a JSON object/array to a file

What it does:
  1. Stringifies the data
  2. Writes the data to the file

<br>
<div id='validUrl'></div>

<b>validUrl(url)</b>

Inputs:
* url - This is the URL to check

Use: This function is used to check whether a URL is valid

Returns: A boolean showing whether it is a valid URL

What it does:

>   1. Tryies to create a URL object

Author: ```suggestion
  1. Tries to create a URL object
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e594b39b5953181d0cb19f39b70c1bd9a48202bc#diff-5c15c1ea97a1813d28f9100d9b54423600a05ddb3527924ceacc07b43c0e433f

  2. Returns whether it is a valid URL by seeing whether the URL was successfully created or not

<br>
<div id='delay'></div>

<b>delay(ms)</b>

Inputs:
* ms - Milliseconds to delay

Use: This function is used to create a delay

Returns: A Promise with a delay of a specified number of milliseconds

<br>
<div id='middleware'></div>

### <u>middleware.js</u>

> This file contains all the functions which are used both by the middleware. 

Author: ```suggestion
This file contains all the functions which are used by the middleware. 
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

<br>
<div id='envvarsmiddleware'></div>

<b>Environment Variables</b>

This script makes use of the following environment variables and it requires them in order to function. In fact, it contains validation upon entry to make sure they are well defined.

| Variable Name        	| Description                                                                                                                                                          	| Default value              	|
|----------------------	|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	|----------------------------	|
| PORT                 	| The port on which the middleware will listen <br>for job updates or results from the CL node                                                                         	| 3000                       	|

> | EI_CHAINLINKURL      	| The CL node URL in order to connect to its API<br>to listen for jobs and send job requests.<br><b>Note that this has no default value and needs<br>to be defined</b> 	| N/A                        	|

Author: Note sure how you are defining these at the moment, but consider adding these in a `.env` file giving them a default value, then add them to docker-compose. Let me give you an example we used for panic:

.env = https://github.com/SimplyVC/panic/blob/master/.env
docker-compsoe.yml = https://github.com/SimplyVC/panic/blob/master/docker-compose.yml

Reviewer: You can do this with .env.sample and not having a .env (.env should always be in the gitignore)

Author: If we do this it is important we inform the user to create a `.env` file in the documentation. In our case for panic we had created a `.env` file with defaults values which was also gitignore'd

Reviewer 2: They are defined in docker-compose.yml

| SEND_CHECK_INTERVAL  	| The interval in seconds which is waited between each send.                                                                                                           	| 12                         	|
| AGORIC_RPC           	| The Agoric's node RPC endpoint                                                                                                                                       	| http://0.0.0.0:26657       	|
| STATE_FILE           	| The path to the middleware state's file                                                                                                                              	| data/middleware_state.json 	|
| CREDENTIALS_FILE     	| The path to the file containing the credentials to the <br>CL node                                                                                                   	| config/ei_credentials.json 	|

The CREDENTIALS_FILE should contain a JSON object containing the credentials to communciate wioth the CL node as can be seen below
```json
{
  "EI_IC_ACCESSKEY": "",
  "EI_IC_SECRET": ""
}
```

<br>
<div id='readState'></div>

<b>readState()</b>

> Use: This function is used to read the middleware state from the file

Author: Same here, we can use a similar approach using classes.

Reviewer 2: Middleware state is deprecated

  1. Obtains a follower of offers and balances for the oracle address
  2. Gets the latest offers by calling <b>getOffers()</b> 
  3. Loops through the offers and does the following:
    a. Returns True if the offer is a 'PushPrice' offer, the feed offer ID matches to the inputted one and the offer has no error and has a matching round number.
    b. Returns False if it finds a successful 'PushPrice' offer with a round id smaller than the one passed as a parameter because a submission for an old round cannot be made. Since we are traversing offers started from the most recent one, if an offer for smaller round id is found, it is useless to continue looping as it is impossible to find an older offer for a more recent round.
  4. False is returned if the recent offers are traversed and no matching successful offer is found.

<br>
<div id='queryPrice'></div>

<b>queryPrice(feed)</b>

Inputs:
* feed - Feed name to query price for

Use: This function is used to query the latest on-chain price for a feed

Returns: The latest price

What it does:
  1. Reads the latest published price from vstorage using Agoric's functions from agoric-sdk
  2. Parses the value and returns it 

>   3. If the above fails for some reason, 0 is returned. A reason for failing could be the first time a feed is created and there is no price on-chain yet

Author: Consider returning -1 instead just in case there is an extreme case where the price is indeed 0.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/aa7bbc42467b4e50899d4ef72e3aec5c75d2eaed

  
<br>
<div id='queryRound'></div>

<b>queryRound(feed)</b>

Inputs:
* feed - Feed name to query round for

Use: This function is used to query the latest on-chain round for a feed

Returns: The latest round in an object containing the round ID, the timestamp when it was started, who started it and whether a submission was made by the oracle running this middleware using the FROM environment variable. The result object has the following structure
```json
{

>   "roundId": 1,

Author: Haven't looked at the code yet, but consider using classes instead of just returning this json  if you didn't.

Author: In general I would return a class instance rather than a json everywhere in your code. So consider applying this suggestion throughout.

  "submissionMade": false
}
```

What it does:
  1. Reads the latest published round from vstorage using Agoric's functions from agoric-sdk
  2. Parses the values for round ID, started timestamp and who started the round
  3. Calls <b>checkSubmissionForRound</b> to check whether the oracle address running this middleware submitted to this round
  4. Appends all the details to an object and returns it

<br>
<div id='submitNewJobIndex'></div>

<b>submitNewJobIndex(index, requestType)</b>

Inputs:
* index - The index of the job in the state data
* requestType - The request type to send as a parameter with the job request. 1 if a timer request, 2 if triggered by a price deviation, 3 for a new round.

Use: This function is used to send a job request to the CL node using the index of the job in the state file

What it does:
  1. Reads the state
  2. Increments the request ID in the state file for the job using the index
  3. Sets the 'last_request_sent' timestamp to the current timestamp in the job's state
  4. Saves the updated state to the state file
  5. Calls <b>sendJobRun</b> to send a job request to the CL node

<br>
<div id='makeController'></div>

<b>makeController()</b>

> Use: This function serves as the controller for the middleware and it basically consists of two intervals running separately. One is triggerred every second and it is used to create a CL job node once this timer triggers. The other is triggered every BLOCK_INTERVAL and it is used to query the latest price and round stored on-chain. The latter will check if there is a price deviation or a new round and if so, a new CL job request is sent to the CL node

Author: ```suggestion
Use: This function serves as the controller for the middleware and it basically consists of two intervals running separately. One is triggerred every second and it is used to create a CL node job once this timer triggers. The other is triggered every BLOCK_INTERVAL and it is used to query the latest price and round stored on-chain. The latter will check if there is a price deviation or a new round and if so, a new CL job request is sent to the CL node
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

  2. Creates a second interval using setInterval to trigger every BLOCK_INTERVAL. This will do the following:
    a. Reads the state
    b. Loops through all the jobs in the state
    c. For every job it does the following:
      - Queries the price on-chain
      - Queries the round on-chain
      - Update the latest price and round in the state for that job
      - If there is a new round and a submission is already made for that round, the 'last_reported_round' is updated in the state file. Otherwise, if a submission is not made, a new CL job request of type 3 is prepared
      - It will check for a price deviation from the previous on-chain price and if there is a price deviation greater than <b>priceDeviationPerc</b>(for that feed), a new CL job request of type 2 is prepared
      - If one of the above conditions is met and a CL job request is prepared, a final check is made. <b>This is done to avoid creating duplicate CL job requests resulting in extra subscription costs for oracles</b>. The CL job request is ONLY sent if one of the following conditions is met:

>         - 1. There is no pending CL job request for which we are still waiting for. This is done by checking the comapring the request ID of the last request sent and received from the state.

Author: ```suggestion
        - 1. There is no pending CL job request for which we are still waiting for. This is done by comparing the request ID of the last request sent and received from the state.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/47346bdfb01465b4ef33fca7ce6b0ee0a0d94f05#diff-5c15c1ea97a1813d28f9100d9b54423600a05ddb3527924ceacc07b43c0e433f

        - 2. An interval of SEND_CHECK_INTERVAL passed fron the last CL job request which was sent.

<br>
<div id='getOraclesInvitationsMiddleware'></div>

<b>getOraclesInvitations()</b>

Use: This function is used to get the oracle invitation IDs for price feeds 

> Returns: An JSON object with invitation IDs as below

Author: ```suggestion
Returns: A JSON object with invitation IDs as below
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

  "OSMO-USD": "987654321"
}
```

What it does:
  1. Loops through each oracle to monitor and obtain their invitation IDs for feeds
  2. The invitations IDs are returned in a JSON objects with the keys being the feed names and the values being the invitation IDs

<br>
<div id='pushPrice'></div>

<b>pushPrice(price, feed, round, from)</b>

Inputs:
* price - The price to push
* feed - The feed to push the price to
* round - The round to push the price to
* from - The oracle address from where to push the price

Use: This function is used to push a price on chain for a specific feed and round

Returns: A boolean indicating whether the push submission was successful or not

What it does:
  1. Creates an ID for the offer. The ID is a timestamp
  2. Obtains the feed offer id from the wallet using <b>getOraclesInvitations()</b>
  3. Creates an offer object with the feed offer id, the created id, the price and the round
  4. It checks whether a submission for this round was already made to avoid double submissions to save transaction fees.
  5. If a submission is not yet made, it will loop for a maximum of SUBMIT_RETRIES and it will do the following:
    a. Queries the latest round

>     b. Confirms whether the round we are submitting to is actuallyt he latest round and that we have not sent a submission for this round yet

Author: ```suggestion
    b. Confirms whether the round we are submitting to is actually he latest round and that we have not sent a submission for this round yet
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e594b39b5953181d0cb19f39b70c1bd9a48202bc

    - One of the following:
      - If its time for a price update by comparing the timestamp of the last round and now by making use of <b>pushInterval</b>(for that feed) (Request type 1)
      - If there is a price deviation greater than <b>priceDeviationPerc</b>(for that feed) between the received price and the latets price on chain (Request type 2)
      - If there was a new a new round (Request type 3)
  - Update the 'last_reported_round' and the request ID of latest job result received from CL node in the state file
<div id='postjobs'></div>

b. <u>/jobs</u>: This is the endpoint which is used to handle a new job created on the CL node. This endpoint adds the job to the list of jobs in the state and intialises all the required states.

<div id='deljobs'></div>

c. <u>/jobs/:id</u>:  This is the endpoint which is used to handle a job removal on the CL node. This endpoint removes the job from the list of jobs in the state and removes any related states.

<br>
<div id='middlewarefunc'></div>

<b>middleware()</b>

Use: This function is used as entry to the middleware functions

What it does:

>   2. Initialises state

Author: ```suggestion
  1. Initialises state
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

>   3. Starts the bridge to listen for new jobs and job results

Author: ```suggestion
  2. Starts the bridge to listen for new jobs and job results
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

>   4. Starts the controller on the first second of the next minute. This is done to try and have all middleware pushing jobs on approximetely the first second of each new minute

Author: ```suggestion
  3. Starts the controller on the first second of the next minute. This is done to try and have all middleware pushing jobs on approximetely the first second of each new minute
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

<br>
<div id='monitorjs'></div>

### <u>monitor.js</u>

> This file contains all the functions which are used both by the monitoring script. 

Author: ```suggestion
This file contains all the functions which are used by the monitoring script. 
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

- An Agoric node hosted on their own infrastructure to allow the middleware / oracle proxy to communicate and broadcast transactions reliably to the network.

## Smart Contract Details

Smart Contract - https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/src/price/priceAggregatorChainlink.js

- The smart contract resembles a native Chainlink Solidity Flux-Monitor smart contract on Ethereum.
- For each feed, there will be a smart contract on chain and each node operator receives invitations to their smart wallet to be part of the oracle set. Then, oracles can use that invitation to push prices on chain.
- There is a minimum number of submissions which has to be reached in order for the on-chain price to be updated
- An oracle cannot initialise multiple consecutive rounds to avoid network congestion
- The updated price is the median from the submitted prices for a particular round
- Submissions for old rounds cannot be submitted and will be rejected

## Aims/Objectives

#### Middleware

The middleware is needed to:

> 1. Create CL jobs. Chainlink Jobs are created every minute. A cron job is not used in order to be able to pass in particular inputs to the job run so that the progress of the request can be stored and monitored.

Reviewer: Consistency, CL jobs or Chainlink Jobs pick one

Reviewer: What does this mean? "A cron job is not used in order to be able to pass in particular inputs to the job run so that the progress of the request can be stored and monitored." so the program is running all the time?

Reviewer 2: > What does this mean? "A cron job is not used in order to be able to pass in particular inputs to the job run so that the progress of the request can be stored and monitored." so the program is running all the time?

Instead of having the middleware initiating CL job requests. You can set the CL job to start requests automatically periodically. However, this does not work for us because we want to initialise CL job requests in different scenarios not only every X seconds (for example when there is a new round on chain).

Reviewer 2: > Consistency, CL jobs or Chainlink Jobs pick one

Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/b0e6e4bd9c39cbce1ecdc031c31c69e95e2b6640

> 2. Get results back from the CL node.

Reviewer: What results? you mean requests sent from middleware (CL jobs) -> CL Node?

Reviewer 2: Yes, a job request is made from the middleware to the CL node and the price results are submitted back to the middleware from the CL node

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e3ae9429499183f765c6fa2da7963d0471fa4498

> 3. Query smart contract for new rounds.

Reviewer: Query smart contract to see if submission period for a new round is open?

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e3ae9429499183f765c6fa2da7963d0471fa4498

> 3. Push price updates on chain.

Reviewer: Submit a transaction to update prices on-chain

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/b0e6e4bd9c39cbce1ecdc031c31c69e95e2b6640

The middleware should contain the following functionalities:

> 1. A state file which is updated so that whenever the middleware is restarted it is able to continue from where it was stopped.

Reviewer: "An updatable state file that allows the middleware to resume from its last execution whenever it is restarted."

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d618962d30fb816644275f5a00cc6f5053798905

> 2. An endpoint to listen for new and removed jobs from the CL node. This is needed in order to keep a list of jobs for which the middleware has to send requests.

Reviewer: "An endpoint that listens for new and removed jobs from the CL node, allowing the middleware to maintain a list of jobs for which requests need to be sent."

Reviewer: what do you mean new and removed jobs? you mean newly created jobs and jobs that are no longer required to be queried?

Reviewer 2: > "An endpoint that listens for new and removed jobs from the CL node, allowing the middleware to maintain a list of jobs for which requests need to be sent."

Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d618962d30fb816644275f5a00cc6f5053798905

> what do you mean new and removed jobs? you mean newly created jobs and jobs that are no longer required to be queried?

Jobs can be added and removed from the CL node. We only want the middleware to run and query the feeds on-chain that match the jobs on the CL node. If a job is removed from the CL node, the middleware should stop making on-chain queries and updates for that feed.

> 3. Keep a list of these jobs in its state

Reviewer: should we say active jobs here? i.e. jobs that are required to be queried

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

> 4. Query the price on chain and the latest round every X seconds so that a new job request is created if a new round is found

Reviewer: So this is a cron job but before you said it wasn't a cron?

Reviewer: Why would you query the price on-chain, it's not going to change?

Reviewer: or you query the price on-chain and compare it with the actual price off-chain and see the difference?

Reviewer 2: > or you query the price on-chain and compare it with the actual price off-chain and see the difference?

Correct

> 5. Send CL job requests to the CL node with parameters including a request ID and the reason for the request every Y seconds. The reason can be one of the following 3 reasons:

Reviewer: Where do you obtain the request ID?

Reviewer 2: It's just an incremental number

  a. Type 1: Time expired and a new request have to be made
  b. Type 2: A price deviation from the on-chain price was found

>   c. Type 3: A new round was found

Reviewer: Why is Type 1 required? a new round opens every 1 minute of no prices updates right? so why would there be a time expired request?

Reviewer: Not sure why don't you query the smart contracts and if a query to CL node is required you issue it directly (sortof event-based) instead of having 2 cron jobs

Reviewer 2: On-chain price updates happen every 10 minutes or when there is a deviation greater than 1%. During those 10 minutes, the middleware queries the price from the CL node every minute to check for deviations. 

The smart contract does not provide details about when a CL job run should be triggered

> 6. An endpoint to listen for results from a CL job for submitted job requests. This endpoint should decide whether or not to push the price on chain. A price should be pushed on chain if one of the following cases is satisfied:

Reviewer: Who submits these new CL jobs?

Reviewer: Why does the endpoint decide whether or not to push the price on the chain HERE? isnt the job request a new "query" that will periodically check to push a price or not (for e.g. start tracking the OSMO/USD price feed).

Reviewer: cause point 5 is doing the same thing no?

> 6. An endpoint to listen for results from a CL job for submitted job requests. This endpoint should decide whether or not to push the price on chain. A price should be pushed on chain if one of the following cases is satisfied:

Reviewer: Why is the double checking required? The middleware submitted a request to the CL node knowing full well that a price update is required. 

The issue is, middleware -> async await contract query -> middle checks if query CL node is require -> submit job to CL node -> CL node sends result -> middleware receives async await contract query -> receives results from contract -> submit result to contract

the results of the contract are retrieved twice?

Reviewer 2: No, a request to the CL node does not mean that an on-chain price update is required. On-chain price updates happen every 10 minutes or when there is a deviation greater than 1%. During those 10 minutes, the middleware queries the price from the CL node every minute to check for deviations. 

The other part of the question is not clear. Can you rephrase please?

  a. It is a new round and the oracle has not yet submitted to this round
  b. An interval of Z minutes/hours expired since the last price pushed on chain. This is only done if the oracle has not started the previous round himself. This is done because an oracle is not allowed to start consecutive rounds.
  c. There is a deviation of more than W% from the current price on-chain. Once again, only done if the oracle has not started the previous round himself.
7. Keep the following information in the state file for each feed:
  a. The CL job's external id for that feed
  b. The name of the feed
  c. The last request id
  d. The last reported round on chain
  e. The timestamp of the last request made to the CL node
  f. The last aggregated price on chain
  g. The request id of the last result received from the CL node

>   h. The details of the latest on-chain round including the round id, the timestamp when it was started, by whom it was started and whether the oracle made a submission for that round

Reviewer: Better doing this in a table, field name, struct and description

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

#### Monitoring

> The monitoring script is needed to:

Reviewer: What do you mean by script? is it another server?

Reviewer: So this script is more of a logging script that is used by operators that everything is going well ?

Reviewer 2: It is a JS script which queries the chain and expose prometheus metrics. It is deployed alongside the middleware by each oracle to monitor their setups.

> 1. Monitor the actual price and that it is being updated

Reviewer: Aren't the prices retrieved from the CL node?

Reviewer 2: Monitoring is for the oracle network. We want to monitor the prices being pushed on the chain and not the outputs from Chainlink nodes.

2. Monitor node operators submissions to ensure they are submitting values within accepatable thresholds and that they are submitting to rounds and not missing them
3. Monitor node operators' balances to ensure they have enough balance for transaction fees to push prices on chain
4. Monitor the rate at which rounds are being created

The monitoring script should contain the following functionalities:

> 1. A state file which is updated so that whenever the monitoring script is restarted it is able to continue from where it was stopped.

Reviewer: "An updatable state file that allows the middleware to resume from its last execution whenever it is restarted."

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d618962d30fb816644275f5a00cc6f5053798905

2. Monitor multiple oracles at once

> 3. An endpoint to expose prometheus metrics 

Reviewer: what do you mean prometheus metrics?

Reviewer: mention that it is a library

Reviewer 2: WDYM by library? Prometheus metrics are not a library but time-series data that are collected and recorded by Prometheus. A metric is a key-value pair that represents a specific piece of data, such as the CPU usage of a server or the response time of an API endpoint.

Reviewer 2: Added a bit more regarding this in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/66a78fb742ad2bef38d1b3a84d13bfa1c0811e15

4. Expose the following metrics
  a. The latest submitted value on chain by an oracle for a feed
  b. The timestamp in which an oracle made an on-chain submission for a feed 
  c. The last round for which an oracle made an on-chain submission for a feed
  d. The deviation of an oracle's submitted price from the latest aggregated value on-chain for a feed
  e. The oracle balance 
  f. The actual price on-chain

> 4. Obtain an oracle's invitation IDs for feeds from wallets

Reviewer: how about "See all invitations IDs to be part of the oracle set from wallets"

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d618962d30fb816644275f5a00cc6f5053798905

5. Query the latest prices and round submissions of oracles every X seconds and update the metrics
6. Have an efficient way of polling only the latest price pushes so be able to monitor oracles efficiently when the number of offers used start to increase

## File structure

In this section, one is able to find a description of the file structure and the contents of files

#### scripts

The scripts directory contains scripts which are used to for deployments. 

The following are the different scripts which can be found in this directory

> 1. accept-oracle-invitation.sh - This script can be used to accept an oracle invitation. This script takes in 3 parameters, the wallet name, the brand in and brand out. An example of a command to run this is ```./accept-oracle-invitation.sh $WALLET_NAME $BRAND_IN $BRAND_OUT```

Reviewer: What is brand in and brand out?

Reviewer: It's not really an example if you put variables, show concrete examples

Reviewer 2: They are base and quote.
For example, in "ATOM-USD", ATOM would be 'brand in' and USD would be 'brand out'

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/8a77991926f6a3d1d36d22028f54ca0f64e17527

> 2. get-sdk-package-names.sh - This script was copied from the agoric-sdk repository and it is used to get the sdk package names.

Reviewer: reference where it was copied from

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

> 3. npm-audit-fix.sh - This script was copied from the agoric-sdk repository and it is used to fix issues with npm.

Reviewer: reference

Reviewer: issues with npm? what?

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

> 4. provision-wallet.sh - This script can be used to provision a smart wallet. This script takes in one parameter, the wallet name. An example of a command to run this is ```./provision-wallet.sh $WALLET_NAME```

Reviewer: A prerequisite is that the wallet was already created

Reviewer 2: Done in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/707addb5d8bb65bc291fff1c4903cc737639056f

#### src

> This directory includes all the source code. It is split into two other directories, <b>oracle</b> and <b>lib</b>.

Reviewer: explain the role for each folder

Reviewer 2: This is done in the folders' respective subsections

> Furthermore, it contains the following two files which serve as an entry point to the middleware and monitoring script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, it contains the following two files which serve as an entry point to the middleware and monitoring script:
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

* <b>bin-middleware.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the middleware by calling the middleware() function
* <b>bin-monitor.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the monitoring script by calling the getOraclesInvitations() and monitor() functions to first get the oracle invitation IDs and then starting the monitoring. 

##### oracle

This directory contains the following files

> 1. <b>feeds.json</b> - This file contains the configuration for each feed in the oracle network. Each feed will have the following fields:

Reviewer: This should probably not be here and rather in a config folder outside of src. src should be only source code

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/2220ec8d4835994ade1a1f49dd3a2acd4eae7450

  - <u>pollInterval</u> - The interval in seconds which needs to pass between each CL job

>   - <u>pushInterval</u> - The interval in seconds which needs to pass between each round creation on-chain

Reviewer: Shouldn't poll/push be obtained from the smart contract (or at least be the same as specified in the SC)?

Reviewer: The above is for all configs actually

Reviewer 2: It is placed here so that it is easier to change in cases of emergency.

Reviewer 2: Also, poll and push are not available in the smart contract

  - <u>decimalPlaces</u> - The number of decimal places allowed for the price

>   - <u>priceDeviationPerc</u> - The price deviation percentage threshold on when to create a new round on-chain 

Reviewer: can this be a decimal?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it can be any Number

The file should have the following structure
```json
{
    "ATOM-USD" : {
        "decimalPlaces": 6,
        "pollInterval": 60,
        "pushInterval": 600,
        "priceDeviationPerc": 1 
    },
    "OSMO-USD" : {
        "decimalPlaces": 6,
        "pollInterval": 60,
        "pushInterval": 600,
        "priceDeviationPerc": 1 
    }
}
```
2. <b>helper.js</b> - This file contains helper functions used in middleware.js and monitor.js
3. <b>middleware.js</b> - This file contains all the necessary code and functions for the middleware

> 4. <b>monitor.js</b> - This file contains all the necessary code and functions for monitoring the oracle network

Reviewer: Not really explaining much

Reviewer: If code has comments, we can just export those and the functions used. Better than this imo

Reviewer 2: It is there to give a brief explanation of what each file entails. Can be removed.

##### lib

> This directory contains files which I cloned from the <b>agoric-sdk</b> repository and these contain functions which are used in the middleware and monitoring script.

Reviewer: would consider using a git submodule or using an agoric library (if there is one?) instead of copy pasting. Also include which version was the code taken from

Reviewer 2: I am only using a small part of it and I felt it did not make sense to include a whole library for this. Also, I had to make some small changes to it.

##### docker-compose.yml

This is a docker-compose file to spin up the middleware and monitoring script

##### Dockerfile.middleware

This is a docker file to build the middleware

##### Dockerfile.monitor

This is a docker file to build the monitoring script

##### monitoring-grafana-dashboard.json

This is a Grafana template to monitor an oracle node or the whole oracle network

## Technical Documentation

In this section, I will go over the <b>oracle</b> directory and explain in detail each function in the files inside it.

> <div id='helperjs'></div>

Reviewer: Why is HTML in a markdown file?

Reviewer 2: This is done to link stuff from the TOC

### <u>helper.js</u>

This file contains helper functions which are used both by the middleware and the monitoring script.

The file contains the following functions:

<br>
<div id='readJSONFile'></div>

<b>readJSONFile(filename)</b>

> Inputs:

Reviewer: I think it's better to use JSDoc here instead of re-explaining all the functions with different text

Reviewer: My suggestion would be remove the explaining of the code completely and add more documentation to the code (where it matters most)

  1. Stringifies the data
  2. Writes the data to the file

<br>
<div id='validUrl'></div>

<b>validUrl(url)</b>

Inputs:
* url - This is the URL to check

Use: This function is used to check whether a URL is valid

Returns: A boolean showing whether it is a valid URL

What it does:
  1. Tryies to create a URL object
  2. Returns whether it is a valid URL by seeing whether the URL was successfully created or not

<br>
<div id='delay'></div>

<b>delay(ms)</b>

Inputs:
* ms - Milliseconds to delay

Use: This function is used to create a delay

Returns: A Promise with a delay of a specified number of milliseconds

<br>
<div id='readvstorage'></div>

<b>readVStorage(vstorage, feed, roundData)</b>

Inputs:
* vstorage - vstorage object obtained on startup
* feed - The feed name
* roundData - A boolean indicating whether we are reading round data. A false means we are reading price data

Use: This function is used read price or round data from vstorage

Returns: CapDataString by calling vstorage.readLatest().

<br>
<div id='middleware'></div>

### <u>middleware.js</u>

This file contains all the functions which are used both by the middleware. 

<br>
<div id='envvarsmiddleware'></div>

> <b>Environment Variables</b>

Reviewer: Very random placement to describe environment variables, put it first before explaining source code

Reviewer 2: Monitor and Middleware use different sets of variables. This section is already before the source code explanation.

| AGORIC_RPC           	| The Agoric's node RPC endpoint                                                                                                                                       	| http://0.0.0.0:26657       	|
| STATE_FILE           	| The path to the middleware state's file                                                                                                                              	| data/middleware_state.json 	|
| CREDENTIALS_FILE     	| The path to the file containing the credentials to the <br>CL node                                                                                                   	| config/ei_credentials.json 	|

The CREDENTIALS_FILE should contain a JSON object containing the credentials to communciate wioth the CL node as can be seen below
```json
{
  "EI_IC_ACCESSKEY": "",
  "EI_IC_SECRET": ""
}
```

<br>
<div id='readState'></div>

<b>readState()</b>

Use: This function is used to read the middleware state from the file

Returns: The middleware's state as JSON from the file or an empty initialised state

What it does:
  1. Tries to read the file using <b>readJSONFile</b>

>   2. If it succeeds, it returs the state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. If it succeeds, it returns the state
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e594b39b5953181d0cb19f39b70c1bd9a48202bc

  3. If it fails, it initialises the state and saves it to file

>   4. Returns either the state from the file or the initialised abd empty state

Reviewer: an?

Reviewer: Not sure what "or the initialised abd empty state" is

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/978a03442a67e5d35587de2f45d3bbe0a3e0db63

  - Update the 'last_reported_round' and the request ID of latest job result received from CL node in the state file
<div id='postjobs'></div>

b. <u>/jobs</u>: This is the endpoint which is used to handle a new job created on the CL node. This endpoint adds the job to the list of jobs in the state and intialises all the required states.

<div id='deljobs'></div>

c. <u>/jobs/:id</u>:  This is the endpoint which is used to handle a job removal on the CL node. This endpoint removes the job from the list of jobs in the state and removes any related states.

<br>
<div id='middlewarefunc'></div>

<b>middleware()</b>

Use: This function is used as entry to the middleware functions

What it does:
  2. Initialises state
  3. Starts the bridge to listen for new jobs and job results
  4. Starts the controller on the first second of the next minute. This is done to try and have all middleware pushing jobs on approximetely the first second of each new minute

<br>
<div id='monitorjs'></div>

### <u>monitor.js</u>

This file contains all the functions which are used both by the monitoring script. 

<br>
<div id='envvarsmonitor'></div>

<b>Environment Variables</b>

> This script makes use of the following environment variables and it requires them in order to function. In fact, it contains validation upon entry to make sure they are well defined.

Reviewer: You're saying that the env variables are required but then assign a default value to them?

Reviewer 2: Removed the required part in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/66a78fb742ad2bef38d1b3a84d13bfa1c0811e15

| POLL_INTERVAL 	| The interval in seconds which needs to pass between<br>each price and round check 	| 10                         	|
| AGORIC_NET    	| Agoric's chain ID                                                                 	| N/A                        	|
| AGORIC_RPC    	| The Agoric's node RPC endpoint                                                    	| http://0.0.0.0:26657       	|
| STATE_FILE    	| The path to the monitoring state's file                                           	| data/monitoring_state.json 	|
| ORACLE_FILE   	| The path to the file containing the oracles to monitor                            	| config/oracles.json        	|

The ORACLE_FILE should contain a JSON array containing the oracles to monitor along with their addresses as can be seen below
```json
{
  "agoric1abcdef12.." : { "oracleName": "ORACLE 1" },
  "agoric1abcdef34.." : { "oracleName": "ORACLE 2" },
  "agoric1abcdef56.." : { "oracleName": "ORACLE 3" },
  "agoric1abcdef78.." : { "oracleName": "ORACLE 4" }
}
```

<br>
<div id='metrics'></div>

<b>Metrics</b>

The following is a list of metrics exposed by the monitoring script:

> - <u>oracle_latest_value</u> - This metric contains the latest submitted value by an oracle. The labels include include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
- <u>oracle_latest_value</u> - This metric contains the latest submitted value by an oracle. The labels include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

> - <u>oracle_last_observation</u> -  This metric contains the timestamp of the latest submission by an oracle. The labels include include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
- <u>oracle_last_observation</u> -  This metric contains the timestamp of the latest submission by an oracle. The labels include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

> - <u>oracle_last_round</u> - This metric contains the round of the latest submission by an oracle. The labels include include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
- <u>oracle_last_round</u> - This metric contains the round of the latest submission by an oracle. The labels include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

> - <u>oracle_price_deviation</u> - This metric contains the deviation between an oracle's submitted value and the aggregated on-chain value. The labels include include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
- <u>oracle_price_deviation</u> - This metric contains the deviation between an oracle's submitted value and the aggregated on-chain value. The labels include oracleName, oracle and feed which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the feed respectively.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

> - <u>oracle_balance</u> - This metric contains the balance of an oracle for a brand. The labels include include oracleName, oracle and brand which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the brand respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
- <u>oracle_balance</u> - This metric contains the balance of an oracle for a brand. The labels include oracleName, oracle and brand which represent the oracle name, oracle address and the brand respectively.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in [the latest commit](https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276)

Use: This function is used to read the oracle details to monitor from ORACLE_FILE

Returns: A JSON array containing oracle names and addresses to monitor

What it does:
  1. Reads oracle details from ORACLE_FILE using <b>readJSONFile</b>

<br>
<div id='readMonitoringState'></div>

<b>readMonitoringState()</b>

Use: This function is used to read the montoring state from the STATE_FILE. This is used upon startup to continue on previous data.

Returns: The monitoring's state as JSON from the file or an empty initialised state

What it does:
  1. Tries to read the file using <b>readJSONFile</b>
  2. If it succeeds, it returs the state
  3. If it fails, it initialises the state and saves it to file
  4. Returns either the state from the file or the initialised abd empty state

<br>
<div id='getOraclesInvitations'></div>

<b>getOraclesInvitations()</b>

Use: This function is used to get the oracle invitation IDs for price feeds 

What it does:
  1. Loops through each oracle to monitor and obtain their invitation IDs for feeds
  2. The invitations IDs are added to the oracle details in the global variable containing details about oracles.

<br>
<div id='updateMetrics'></div>

> <b>updateMetrics(oracleName, oracle, feed, value, id, actualPrice, lastRound)</b>

Author: I suggest renaming one of these `updateMetrics` so that you don't have two with the same name.

Reviewer 2: This was a mistake in docs. Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

Inputs:
* oracleName - The name of the oracle
* oracle - The address of the oracle
* feed - The feed
* value - The latest submitted value on chain
* id - The submission ID which is also the last timestamp
* actualPrice - The actual aggregated price on chain
* lastRound - The latest round ID for which a submission was made

Use: This function is used to update metrics 

What it does:
  1. Calculates the deviation between the price submitted and the aggregated price on chain
  2. Updates the metrics

<br>
<div id='updateBalanceMetrics'></div>

<b>updateMetrics(oracleName, oracle, brand, value)</b>

Inputs:
* oracleName - The name of the oracle
* oracle - The address of the oracle
* brand - The brand
* value - The latest balance value

Use: This function is used to update balance metrics 

What it does:

>   2. Updates the metrics

Author: ```suggestion
  1. Updates the metrics
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in [the latest commit](https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276)

<br>
<div id='queryPriceMonitor'></div>

<b>queryPrice(feed)</b>

Inputs:
* feed - Feed name to query price for

Use: This function is used to query the latest on-chain price for a feed

Returns: The latest price

What it does:
  1. Reads the latest published price from vstorage using Agoric's functions from agoric-sdk
  2. Parses the value and returns it 

>   3. If the above fails for some reason, 0 is returned. A reason for failing could be the first time a feed is created and there is no price on-chain yet

Author: Consider returning -1 for failure.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/aa7bbc42467b4e50899d4ef72e3aec5c75d2eaed

<br>
<div id='getOffersAndBalances'></div>

<b>getOffersAndBalances(follower, oracle)</b>

Inputs:
* follower - A list of offers and balances for an oracle
* oracle - The oracle address

Use: This function is used to obtain the most recent offers and balances for an oracle

Returns: An object containing a list of the most recent offers and balances in the form below
```json
{
  "offers": [],
  "balances": []
}
```

What it does:
  1. Reverses all the offers and loops through the reversed array
  2. If it is an offer status and it does not have an 'error' property, it is added to the offers array to be returned
  3. Gets the balances using getCurrent and pushes them to array of balances
  4. Returns the object with both offers and balances arrays

<br>
<div id='getLatestPrices'></div>

<b>getLatestPrices(oracle, oracleDetails, state)</b>

Inputs:
* oracle - The oracle address
* oracleDetails - The oracle details, including the feeds
* state - Latest oracle state

Use: This function is used to obtain the latest submission details for an oracle

> Returns: An object containing details of the laste submission in the form as below

Author: ```suggestion
Returns: An object containing details of the last submission in the form below
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/cd76729555e0602429d3914c263985337e0aa276

2. We need to send CL job requests in other cases, such as when there is a new round on chain or when a price deviation is found. If we use a cron job we would not be able to initiate extra job requests without having a duplicate job just for this, making the whole setup messy and unsustainable.

<div id='consid2'></div>

### Why does the middleware consist of an exposed API and two intervalled functions?

The middleware works in the following way:

- It constantly listens to requests to its web server. These requests can either be that a new job was added or an existing job was removed. It can be a request indicating that a job run finished and the CL node sends the result to our server. The middleware needs this webserver to be able to constantly listen for updates from the CL node without interrupting the main thread of the execution described below.
- In addition, it has two intervalled functions created using the native JS <b>setInterval()</b> function. 
  - One of these functions depends on POLL_INTERVAL, and it is used to create a job request on the Chainlink node every X seconds to get the latest price off-chain.

>   - The other function depends on BLOCK_INTERVAL and it is used to query the latest aggregated pric and round details on chain. This is needed in order to create an extra CL job request if there is a price deviation or a new round on chain

Author: ```suggestion
  - The other function depends on BLOCK_INTERVAL and it is used to query the latest aggregated price and round details on chain. This is needed in order to create an extra CL job request if there is a price deviation or a new round on chain
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e594b39b5953181d0cb19f39b70c1bd9a48202bc

| SUBMIT_RETRIES       	| The number of retries to try when submitting a price<br>on-chain and it fails                                                                                        	| 3                          	|
| BLOCK_INTERVAL       	| The block time of the chain in seconds. This is used<br>to query the price and round at every interval.                                                              	| 6                          	|
| SEND_CHECK_INTERVAL  	| The interval in seconds which is waited between each send.                                                                                                           	| 45                         	|
| AGORIC_RPC           	| The Agoric's node RPC endpoint                                                                                                                                       	| http://0.0.0.0:26657       	|
| STATE_FILE           	| The path to the middleware state's file                                                                                                                              	| data/middleware_state.json 	|

> | CREDENTIALS_FILE     	| The path to the file containing the credentials to the <br>CL node                                                                                                   	| config/ei_credentials.json 	|

Reviewer: You also assigning FEEDS_FILE = "oracle/feeds.json" as environment variable in middleware.js file but it is not listed here

Reviewer 2: Removed this from an env var

| Table Name 	| Field Name               	| Description                                                 	| Type   	|
|------------	|--------------------------	|-------------------------------------------------------------	|--------	|
| jobs       	| id                       	| The CL job's external id for that feed                      	| String 	|
| jobs       	| name                     	| The name of the feed                                        	| String 	|
| jobs       	| request_id               	| The last request id                                         	| Number 	|
| jobs       	| last_reported_round      	| The last reported round on chain                            	| Number 	|
| jobs       	| last_request_sent        	| The timestamp of the last price submission made on chain    	| Number 	|
| jobs       	| last_submission_time     	| The timestamp of the last request made to the CL node       	| Number 	|
| jobs       	| last_result              	| The last aggregated price on chain                          	| Number 	|
| jobs       	| last_received_request_id 	| The request id of the last result received from the CL node 	| Number 	|

> 8. Keep the following information in the DB for each job in the jobs table:

Author: Should this be `jobs` or `rounds`?

Reviewer 2: jobs correct

The middleware is needed to:
1. Create CL jobs. CL jobs are created every minute. A cron job is not used in order to be able to pass in particular inputs to the job run so that the progress of the request can be stored and monitored.

> 2. Get price responses back from the CL node after Job requests are made from the middleware.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Get price responses back from the CL node after job requests are made from the middleware.
```

The middleware should contain the following functionalities:

> 1. An SQLLite database to keep the middleware's state so that whenever the middleware is restarted it is able to continue from where it was stopped.

Author: ```suggestion
1. An SQLLite database to keep the middleware's state so that whenever the middleware is restarted it is able to continue from where it stopped.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/d85360c17cb9f44394ff03ce5df97da7c44ef58a

#### src

This directory includes all the source code. It is split into three other directories, <b>helpers</b>, <b>oracle</b> and <b>lib</b>.

Furthermore, it contains the following two files which serve as an entry point to the middleware and monitoring script

* <b>bin-middleware.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the middleware by calling the middleware() function
* <b>bin-monitor.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the monitoring script by calling the getOraclesInvitations() and monitor() functions to first get the oracle invitation IDs and then starting the monitoring. 

##### helpers

This directory contains the following files:

1. <b>db.js</b> - This file contains helper functions related to the database

> 2. <b>utils.js</b> - This file contains basic utility and helper functions 

Author: ```suggestion
2. <b>utils.js</b> - This file contains basic helper functions 
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e91055de2e9bf69f8f1a3b26b60b0ecc95c3302c

3. npm-audit-fix.sh - This script was copied from the <a href="https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/8720d22ddf25a005aee25786bfa8ee4bccaf19c9/packages/agoric-cli/scripts/npm-audit-fix.sh">agoric-sdk repository</a>
4. provision-wallet.sh - This script can be used to provision a smart wallet. This script takes in one parameter, the wallet name. An example of a command to run this is ```./provision-wallet.sh $WALLET_NAME```

#### src

This directory includes all the source code. It is split into three other directories, <b>helpers</b>, <b>oracle</b> and <b>lib</b>.

Furthermore, it contains the following two files which serve as an entry point to the middleware and monitoring script:

* <b>bin-middleware.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the middleware by calling the middleware() function
* <b>bin-monitor.js</b> - This serves as an entry point to the monitoring script by calling the getOraclesInvitations() and monitor() functions to first get the oracle invitation IDs and then starting the monitoring. 

##### helpers

This directory contains the following files:

> 1. <b>bridge.js</b> - This file contains the NodeJS server which will listen to requests from the CL node

Author: The server should not be in the utilities. You can improve this by having `oracle/controller.js` with the makeController logic and `oracle/bridge.js` with the bridge logic.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/6bd47554fb5ef6d462c55d95c8779f0cb606f2a9

    }
}
```
2. <b>middleware.js</b> - This file contains all the necessary code and functions for the middleware

> 3. <b>monitor.js</b> - This file contains all the necessary code and functions for monitoring the oracle network

Author: ```suggestion
1. <b>middleware.js</b> - This file contains all the necessary code and functions for the middleware
2. <b>monitor.js</b> - This file contains all the necessary code and functions for monitoring the oracle network
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/e91055de2e9bf69f8f1a3b26b60b0ecc95c3302c

  4. Appends all the details to an object and returns it

<br>
<div id='submitNewJob'></div>

<b>submitNewJob(feed, requestType)</b>

Inputs:
* feed - The feed to submit a new job request for
* requestType - The request type to send as a parameter with the job request. 1 if a timer request, 2 if triggered by a price deviation, 3 for a new round.

Use: This function is used to send a job request to the CL node

What it does:
  1. Gets the latest request ID from the DB
  2. Increments the request ID
  3. Updates the 'last_request_sent' timestamp to the current timestamp in the DB

>   5. Calls <b>sendJobRun</b> to send a job request to the CL node

Author: ```suggestion
  4. Calls <b>sendJobRun</b> to send a job request to the CL node
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/f06034668638a958564deaad646dc11919f33f23

  2. Creates a second interval using setInterval to trigger every BLOCK_INTERVAL. This will do the following:
    a. Reads the jobs from the DB
    b. Loops through all the jobs
    c. For every job it does the following:
      - Queries the price on-chain
      - Queries the round on-chain
      - Update the latest price and round in the DB for that job
      - If there is a new round and a submission is already made for that round, the 'last_reported_round' is updated in the DB. Otherwise, if a submission is not made, a new CL job request of type 3 is prepared
      - It will check for a price deviation from the previous on-chain price and if there is a price deviation greater than <b>priceDeviationPerc</b>(for that feed), a new CL job request of type 2 is prepared
      - If one of the above conditions is met and a CL job request is prepared, a final check is made. <b>This is done to avoid creating duplicate CL job requests resulting in extra subscription costs for oracles</b>. The CL job request is ONLY sent if one of the following conditions is met:

>         - 1. There is no pending CL job request for which we are still waiting for. This is done by checking the comparing the request ID of the last request sent and received from the DB.

Author: ```suggestion
        - 1. There is no pending CL job request for which we are still waiting for. This is done by comparing the request ID of the last request sent and received from the DB.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/f06034668638a958564deaad646dc11919f33f23

  2. Obtains the feed offer id from the wallet using <b>getOraclesInvitations()</b>
  3. Creates an offer object with the feed offer id, the created id, the price and the round
  4. It checks whether a submission for this round was already made to avoid double submissions to save transaction fees.
  5. Check if the middleware is waiting for a price submission confirmation using checkIfInSubmission()

>   5. If a submission is not yet made and it is not waiting for a submission confirmation, it will loop for a maximum of SUBMIT_RETRIES and it will do the following:

Author: ```suggestion
  6. If a submission is not yet made and it is not waiting for a submission confirmation, it will loop for a maximum of SUBMIT_RETRIES and it will do the following:
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/jacquesvcritien/agoric-cl-middleware/commit/f06034668638a958564deaad646dc11919f33f23

  2. Calculates the number of seconds passed from the submission
  3. Returns whether the number of seconds passed exceed SEND_CHECK_INTERVAL

<br>
<div id='checkForPriceUpdate'></div>

<b>checkForPriceUpdate(jobName, requestType, result)</b>

Inputs:
* jobName - The job name or feed for which we want to check
* requestType - The requestType of the price received from the CL node
* result - The price received from the CL node

Use: This function is used to check if a price update should be made on chain after receiving a price from the CL job

Returns: A boolean indicating whether a price update should be made on chain

What it does:
- Checks whether the following criteria is satisfied:
  - SEND_CHECK_INTERVAL seconds passed from the last price push update to ensure that multiple price updates are not pushed simultaneously

>   - If it is a new round and we the oracle has not started the current on-chain round or if it is not a new round but the oracle has not submitted to the current round on-chain

Author: ```suggestion
  - If it is a new round and the oracle has not started the current on-chain round, or if it is not a new round but the oracle has not submitted to the current round on-chain
```

  - One of the following:
    - If its time for a price update by comparing the timestamp of the last round and now by making use of <b>pushInterval</b>(for that feed) (Request type 1)
    - If there is a price deviation greater than <b>priceDeviationPerc</b>(for that feed) between the received price and the latest price on chain (Request type 2)
    - If there was a new a new round (Request type 3)

<br>
<div id='bridgejs'></div>

### <u>oracle/bridge.js</u>

<br>
<div id='startBridge'></div>

<b>startBridge(port)</b>

Inputs:
* port - The port to listen on

User: This function is used to start a server which listens to requests for a job addition, a job removal and a new job result. This server should serve the following endpoints:
1. <b>POST /adapter</b> - to get a job result from a CL node
2. <b>POST /jobs</b> - to get a new job addition from a CL node
3. <b>DELETE /jobs/:id</b> - to get a job removal from a CL node

What it does:

<div id='postadapter'></div>

a. <u>/adapter</u>: This is the endpoint which is used to accept job results from CL job requests. This endpoint does the following:

>   - Read the result, request ID, request Type and job name from the received body

Author: ```suggestion
  - Read the result, request ID, request type and job name from the received body
```

| EI_CHAINLINKURL      	| The CL node URL in order to connect to its API<br>to listen for jobs and send job requests.<br><b>Note that this has no default value and needs<br>to be defined</b> 	| N/A                        	|
| FROM                 	| The address of the oracle from which to push prices.<br><b>Note that this has no default value and needs<br>to be defined</b>                                        	| N/A                        	|
| SUBMIT_RETRIES       	| The number of retries to try when submitting a price<br>on-chain and it fails                                                                                        	| 3                          	|
| BLOCK_INTERVAL       	| The block time of the chain in seconds. This is used<br>to query the price and round at every interval.                                                              	| 6                          	|
| SEND_CHECK_INTERVAL  	| The interval in seconds which is waited between each send.                                                                                                           	| 45                         	|

> | AGORIC_RPC           	| The Agoric's node RPC endpoint                                                                                                                                       	| http://0.0.0.0:26657       	|

Author: ```suggestion
| AGORIC_RPC           	| The Agoric node's RPC endpoint                                                                                                                                       	| http://0.0.0.0:26657       	|
```

<b>readMonitoringState()</b>

> Use: This function is used to read the monitoring state from the STATE_FILE. This is used upon startup to continue on previous data.

Author: Since you now switched from state files to a DB you need to fix this right? Make sure you fix this throughout your documentation.

Reviewer 2: We will not move to a DB for the monitoring script
